# Governance

So now it’s time to learn a little of what really makes Decred shine, and how it’s differentiated from the impacted and cramped realm of cryptocurrencies.

## Initial Distribution

[How was Decred's Premine Distributed?](https://docs.decred.org/faq/general/#3-how-was-the-decred-premine-distributed)

Initial Distribution
Decred launched in February of 2016. A total of 1.68 million DCR was premined in order to fund development of the project. Of this amount, which totals 8% of the entire potential supply (21 million) half is earmarked for development by Decred’s first contractor organization, Company 0, and half was “airdropped” to interested cryptocurrency enthusiasts familiar with the project. This was done for two big reasons.

Development is expensive, and developers need to be paid. Most projects suffer from finding ways to fund development. The half of the pre-mine that was offered to developers was not freely given away, either. It was offered for purchase at a rate of $.49 In hindsight, “what an amazing deal!” but at the time it was speculative whether the project would be successful, and this purchase created a relationship between developers investment success and the success of the project.

Decred’s foundation works best with decentralized stakeholders, so putting an insignificant amount of Decred into roughly 3,000 separate individual hands spread decentralization from the get-go.

There’s a lot of FUD around premines with cryptocurrencies, and for good reason. Lately they have been used to enrich the developers of dubious forks of other projects as well as scammy ICOs. Decred’s premine was done very transparently. Milestones have been met, and we’ve seen the fruition of Decred’s development work as well as success from the community with Decred’s network growing larger and larger every day.

## Staking

Stakeholders make the rules. What sets Decred apart? The Hybrid Proof of Work/Proof of Stake system. What is that? Here we go:

Proof of Work - You’ve heard of cryptocurrency mining, right? You’ve seen the pictures of the racks upon racks of graphics cards humming away in some warehouse or basement. These guys are mining, and they’re making money from it. Miners mine decred for 60% of the reward coming from each new block found on the Decred blockchain.

Proof of Stake - This one’s new. Staking entails locking up owned DCR by purchasing a ticket, which has voting rights to cast on proposals and the current voting agenda. Owners of Decred who lock up their DCR for tickets earn the staking reward from new blocks, 30%, when their ticket is called to vote by the newly found block generated by the Proof of Work miners. A ticket is locked up for roughly 28 days, and the reward for staking is currently around 2% of the price of the ticket. You heard that right. You can make 2% on your investment within a month.

So now we know, newly created DCR is split 60% PoW and 30% PoS. But hold on, that only adds up to 90%! The remaining 10% of the block reward is sent to a cold wallet address used to fund further development of Decred. Sound a little sketchy? Who controls this fund?! How do I know it’s not getting blown on-- well, blow and fancy vacations to nice beaches?

Well here’s the thing. First of all, the wallet receiving this percentage of the block reward is public information, so anyone can track how much is going in and leaving the wallet. Second of all, the transfer of these funds is planned to be moved away from a centralized controller to the Decred DAO, where funds will only be spent pertaining to instructions laid out within voted on proposals. Third of all, all of this is laid out in the Decred constitution, which you can read here:
[Decred Constitution/Funding](https://docs.decred.org/getting-started/constitution/#funding)

## Politeia

Politeia
The answer to “How is this money being spent?”

Politeia is the upcoming platform for submitting proposals to the Decred stakeholders who decide what sort of changes will pass, and what projects will be worked on in the best interest of Decred. As an owner of Decred, you can be one of these stakeholders by purchasing a ticket and assigning your voting rights according to your preferences.

The release of Politeia will be huge for Decred, as it’s another major milestone set forth by the project founders and represents another huge leap for governance in cryptocurrency. Contrast this system to Bitcoin, which is controlled entirely by the miners. A system where, if your idea is contentious enough and you’ve got the resources and community backing, you just start your own fork of Bitcoin and make millions off the name alone. *cough scam *cough

This can’t happen with Decred. Due to it’s fork resistance it’s next to impossible to fork Decred without consensus, and if you have consensus, then the system is working and the idea is implemented via a hardfork that doesn’t create a new feasible cryptocurrency chain. #OneChain
For more info on this, see here.
[Decred's Fork Resistance](https://decredulo.us/2017/11/25/decreds-fork-resistance/)

Politeia’s development is almost complete, and you can follow the progress by joining the Decred’s Slack and viewing the #dev channel. For a glimpse of it’s current state, visit [Decred's Test Politeia Site](https://test-proposals.decred.org/)